README.md, before:

# Hermes

Hermes - a messenger of gods, delivering them via RabbitMQ with a little help from [hutch](https://github.com/gocardless/hutch).

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'hermes-rb'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle install

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install hermes-rb

## Usage

First, define an initializer, for example `config/initializers/hermes.rb`

``` rb
Rails.application.config.to_prepare do
  event_handler = Hermes::EventHandler.new

  Hermes.configure do |config|
    config.adapter = Rails.application.config.async_messaging_adapter
    config.application_prefix = "my_app"
    config.background_processor = HermesHandlerJob
    config.enqueue_method = :perform_async
    config.event_handler = event_handler
    config.clock = Time.zone
    config.correlation_uuid_generator = PaperTrail::CorrelationUuid
    config.instrumenter = Instrumenter
    config.configure_hutch do |hutch|
      hutch.uri = ENV.fetch("HUTCH_URI")
    end
  end

  event_handler.handle_events do
    handle Events::Example::Happened, with: Example::HappenedHandler

    handle Events::Example::SyncCallHappened, with: Example::SyncCallHappenedHandler, async: false
  end
end

Hutch::Logging.logger = Rails.logger if !Rails.env.test? && !Rails.env.development?
```

Note that not all options are required (could be the case if the application is just a producer or just a consumer).

1. `adapter` - messages can be either delivered via RabbitMQ or in-memory adapter (useful for testing). Most likely you will want to make it based on the environment, that's why it's advisable to use `Rails.application.config.async_messaging_adapter` and define `async_messaging_adapter` on `config` object in `development.rb`, `test.rb` and `production.rb` files. The recommended setup is to assign `config.async_messaging_adapter = :in_memory` for test ENV and `config.async_messaging_adapter = :hutch` for production and development ENVs.
2. `application_prefix` - identifier for this application. **ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY** unless you want to have competing queues with different applications (hint: most likely you don't want that).
3/4. `background_processor` and `enqueue_method`. By design, Hermes is supposed to use Hutch workers to fetch the messages from RabbitMQ and process them in some background jobs framework. `background_processor` refers to the name of the class for the job and `enqueue_method` is the method name that will be called when enqueuing the job. This method must accept two arguments: `event_class` and `payload`. Here is an example for Sdekiq:

``` rb
class HermesHandlerJob
  include Sidekiq::Worker

  sidekiq_options queue: :critical

  def perform(event_class, payload)
    Hermes::EventProcessor.call(event_class, payload)
  end
end
```

If you know what you are doing, you don't necessarily have to process things in the background. As long as the class implements the expected interface, you can do anything you want.
5. `event_handler` - an instance of event handler/storage, just use what is shown in the example.
6. `clock` - a clock object that is time-zone aware, implementing `now` method. Since Hermes is decoupled from Rails and ActiveSupport, it doesn't know about `Time.zone` etc., so you need to inject it yourself (if you use Rails).
7. `correlation_uuid_generator` - to have an easily trackable saga of the events, it's a good idea to registerer correlation IDs. Even better if it's something that you also use for audit log like PaperTrailVersions. That way, it's easier to think about side effects. Here, the application uses the generator that is shared with PaperTrailVersions. If you don't care about correlation UUIDs, just use `SecureRandom`. The expected interface is `uuid` method that is going to return some uuid and that's it.

``` rb
class PaperTrail::CorrelationUuid
  def self.uuid
    store[:correlation_uuid] ||= SecureRandom.uuid
  end

  def self.uuid=(uuid)
    store[:correlation_uuid] = uuid
  end

  def self.store
    RequestStore.store[:paper_trail_extensions] ||= {}
  end
  private_class_method :store
end
```

Note that it uses `RequestStore`, which is an external dependency. To reuse this class, you need to install `request_store` and `request_store-sidekiq` gems.
8. `configure_hutch` - a way to specify `hutch uri`, basically the URI for RabbitMQ.
9. `event_handler.handle_events` - that's how you declare events and their handlers. The event handler is an object that responds to `call` method and takes `event` as an argument. All events shoyld ideally be subclasses of the following base class:

``` rb
class Events::BaseEvent < Dry::Struct
  def self.routing_key
    to_s.split("::")[1..-1].map(&:underscore).map(&:downcase).join(".")
  end

  def routing_key
    self.class.routing_key
  end

  def version
    1
  end
end
```

That also implies that you need to add `dry-types` and `dry-struct` gems and use their API to define attributes or provide custom `as_json` method for serialization and implement the same interface for initializing objects as `dry-struct` does if you don't want to introduce extra dependencies.

You can also specify whether the event should be processed asynchronously using `background_processor` (default behavior) or synchronously. If you want the event to be processed synchronously, e.g. when doing RPC, use `async: false` option.

10. `rpc_call_timeout` - a timeout for RPC calls, defaults to 10 seconds. Can be also customized per instance of RPC Client (covered later).

11. `instrumenter` - instrumenter object responding to `instrument` method taking one string argument, one optional hash argument and a block.

For example:

``` rb
module Instrumenter
  extend ::NewRelic::Agent::MethodTracer

  def self.instrument(name, payload = {})
    ActiveSupport::Notifications.instrument(name, payload) do
      self.class.trace_execution_scoped([name]) do
        yield if block_given?
      end
    end
  end
end
```

If you don't care about it, just use `Hermes::NullInstrumenter`.

### RPC

If you want to handle RPC call, you need to add `rpc: true` flag. Keep in mind that RPC requires a synchronous processing and response, so you also need to set `async: false`. The routing key and correlation ID will be resolved based on the message that is published by the client. The payload that is sent back will be what event handler reutrns, so it might be a good idea to just return a hash so that you can operate on JSON easily.

## Publishing

To publish an async event call `Hermes::Publisher`:

``` rb
Hermes::EventProducer.publish(event)
```

`event` is an instance of a subclass of `Events::BaseEvent`.

If you want to perform a synchronous RPC call, use `Hermes::RpcClient`:

``` rb
parsed_response_hash = Hermes::RpcClient.call(event)
```

You can also use an explicit initializer and provide custom `rpc_call_timeout`:

``` rb
parsed_response_hash = Hermes::RpcClient.new(rpc_call_timeout: 10).call(event)
```

If the request timeouts, `Hermes::RpcClient::RpcTimeoutError` will be raised.

## Testing

### RSpec useful stuff

Put this inside `rails_helper`. Note that it requires `webmock` and `sidekiq`.

``` rb
  def execute_jobs_inline
    original_active_job_adapter = ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter
    ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter = :inline
    Sidekiq::Testing.inline! do
      yield
    end
    ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter = original_active_job_adapter
  end

  config.around(:example, :inline_jobs) do |example|
    execute_jobs_inline { example.run }
  end

  class ActiveRecord::Base
    mattr_accessor :shared_connection

    def self.connection
      shared_connection.presence || retrieve_connection
    end
  end

  config.after(:each) do
    Hermes::Publisher.instance.reset
  end

  config.before(:each, :with_rabbit_mq) do
    ActiveRecord::Base.shared_connection = ActiveRecord::Base.connection

    stub_request(:get, "http://127.0.0.1:15672/api/exchanges")
    stub_request(:get, "http://127.0.0.1:15672/api/bindings")

    hutch_publisher = Hermes::Publisher::HutchAdapter.new
    Hermes::Publisher.instance.current_adapter = hutch_publisher

    @worker_thread = Thread.new do
      Hutch.connect

      worker = Hutch::Worker.new(Hutch.broker, Hutch.consumers, Hutch::Config.setup_procs)
      worker.run
    end

    sleep 0.2
  end

  config.after(:each, :with_rabbit_mq) do |example|
    @worker_thread.kill
  end
```

To run integrations specs (with real RabbitMQ process), use `inline_jobs` and `with_rabbit_mq` meta flags.

#### Example integration spec with RabbitMQ

``` rb
require "rails_helper"

RSpec.describe "Example Event Test", :with_rabbit_mq, :inline_jobs do
  describe "when Events::Example::Happened is published" do
    subject(:publish_event) { Hermes::EventProducer.publish(event) }

    let(:event) { Events::Example::Happened.new(event_params) }
    let(:event_params) do
      {
        name: name
      }
    end
    let(:name) { "hermes" }

    it "calls Example::HappenedHandler" do
      expect(Example::HappenedHandler).to receive(:call)
        .with(instance_of(Events::Example::Happened)).and_call_original

      publish_event
      sleep 0.2 # since this is an async action, some delay will be required, either with a simple way like this, or you may want to go with something more complex to not put ugly `sleep` here
    end
  end
end

```

### Matchers

E.g. in `spec/supports/matchers/publish_async_message`:

``` rb
require "hermes/support/matchers/publish_async_message"
```

And then use it in the following way:

``` rb
expect {
  call
}.to publish_async_message(routing_key_of_the_expected_event).with_event_payload(expected_event_payload)
```

Note that `expected_event_payload` does not contain extra `meta` key that is added by Hermes publisher, it's just a symbolized hash with the result of the serialization of the event.

### Example test of HermesHandlerJob

``` rb
require "rails_helper"

RSpec.describe HermesHandlerJob do
  it { is_expected.to be_processed_in :critical }

  describe "#perform" do
    subject(:perform) { described_class.new.perform(EventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob.to_s, payload) }

    let(:configuration) { Hermes.configuration }
    let(:event_handler) { Hermes::EventHandler.new }
    let(:payload) do
      {
        "bookingsync" => "hermes"
      }
    end
    class EventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob < Events::BaseEvent
      attribute :bookingsync, Types::Strict::String
    end
    class HandlerForEventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob
      def self.event
        @event
      end

      def self.call(event)
        @event = event
      end
    end

    before do
      event_handler.handle_events do
        handle EventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob, with: HandlerForEventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob
      end
    end

    around do |example|
      original_event_handler = configuration.event_handler

      Hermes.configure do |config|
        config.event_handler = event_handler
      end

      example.run

      Hermes.configure do |config|
        config.event_handler = original_event_handler
      end
    end

    it "calls proper handler with a given event" do
      perform

      expect(HandlerForEventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob.event).to be_a(EventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob)
      expect(HandlerForEventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob.event.bookingsync).to eq "hermes"
    end
  end
end
```

## Deployment and managing consumerzs

Hermes is just an extra later on top of [hutch](https://github.com/gocardless/hutch), refer to Hutch's docs for more info about dealing with the workers and deployment.

## CircleCI config for installing RabbitMQ

Use `- image: brandembassy/rabbitmq:latest`

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/BookingSync/hermes-rb.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

introduce base event class ; readme cleanup

README.md, after:

# Hermes

Hermes - a messenger of gods, delivering them via RabbitMQ with a little help from [hutch](https://github.com/gocardless/hutch).

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'hermes-rb'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle install

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install hermes-rb

## Usage

First, define an initializer, for example `config/initializers/hermes.rb`

``` rb
Rails.application.config.to_prepare do
  event_handler = Hermes::EventHandler.new

  Hermes.configure do |config|
    config.adapter = Rails.application.config.async_messaging_adapter
    config.application_prefix = "my_app"
    config.background_processor = HermesHandlerJob
    config.enqueue_method = :perform_async
    config.event_handler = event_handler
    config.clock = Time.zone
    config.correlation_uuid_generator = PaperTrail::CorrelationUuid
    config.instrumenter = Instrumenter
    config.configure_hutch do |hutch|
      hutch.uri = ENV.fetch("HUTCH_URI")
    end
  end

  event_handler.handle_events do
    handle Events::Example::Happened, with: Example::HappenedHandler

    handle Events::Example::SyncCallHappened, with: Example::SyncCallHappenedHandler, async: false
  end
end

Hutch::Logging.logger = Rails.logger if !Rails.env.test? && !Rails.env.development?
```

Note that not all options are required (could be the case if the application is just a producer or just a consumer).

1. `adapter` - messages can be either delivered via RabbitMQ or in-memory adapter (useful for testing). Most likely you will want to make it based on the environment, that's why it's advisable to use `Rails.application.config.async_messaging_adapter` and define `async_messaging_adapter` on `config` object in `development.rb`, `test.rb` and `production.rb` files. The recommended setup is to assign `config.async_messaging_adapter = :in_memory` for test ENV and `config.async_messaging_adapter = :hutch` for production and development ENVs.
2. `application_prefix` - identifier for this application. **ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY** unless you want to have competing queues with different applications (hint: most likely you don't want that).
3/4. `background_processor` and `enqueue_method`. By design, Hermes is supposed to use Hutch workers to fetch the messages from RabbitMQ and process them in some background jobs framework. `background_processor` refers to the name of the class for the job and `enqueue_method` is the method name that will be called when enqueuing the job. This method must accept two arguments: `event_class` and `payload`. Here is an example for Sdekiq:

``` rb
class HermesHandlerJob
  include Sidekiq::Worker

  sidekiq_options queue: :critical

  def perform(event_class, payload)
    Hermes::EventProcessor.call(event_class, payload)
  end
end
```

If you know what you are doing, you don't necessarily have to process things in the background. As long as the class implements the expected interface, you can do anything you want.
5. `event_handler` - an instance of event handler/storage, just use what is shown in the example.
6. `clock` - a clock object that is time-zone aware, implementing `now` method.
7. `correlation_uuid_generator` - to have an easily trackable saga of the events, it's a good idea to registerer correlation IDs. Even better if it's something that you also use for audit log like PaperTrailVersions. That way, it's easier to think about side effects. Here, the application uses the generator that is shared with PaperTrailVersions. If you don't care about correlation UUIDs, just use `SecureRandom`. The expected interface is `uuid` method that is going to return some uuid and that's it.

``` rb
class PaperTrail::CorrelationUuid
  def self.uuid
    store[:correlation_uuid] ||= SecureRandom.uuid
  end

  def self.uuid=(uuid)
    store[:correlation_uuid] = uuid
  end

  def self.store
    RequestStore.store[:paper_trail_extensions] ||= {}
  end
  private_class_method :store
end
```

Note that it uses `RequestStore`, which is an external dependency. To reuse this class, you need to install `request_store` and `request_store-sidekiq` gems.
8. `configure_hutch` - a way to specify `hutch uri`, basically the URI for RabbitMQ.
9. `event_handler.handle_events` - that's how you declare events and their handlers. The event handler is an object that responds to `call` method and takes `event` as an argument. All events should ideally be subclasses of `Hermes::BaseEvent`

This class inherits from `Dry::Struct`, so getting familiar with [dry-struct gem](https://dry-rb.org/gems/dry-struct/) would be beneficial. Here is an example event:

``` rb
class Payment::MarkedAsPaid < Hermes::BaseEvent
  attribute :payment_id, Types::Strict::Integer
  attribute :cents, Types::Strict::Integer
  attribute :currency, Types::Strict::String
end
```

To keep things clean, you might want to prefix the namespace with `Events`:

``` rb
class Events::Payment::MarkedAsPaid < Hermes::BaseEvent
  attribute :payment_id, Types::Strict::Integer
  attribute :cents, Types::Strict::Integer
  attribute :currency, Types::Strict::String
end
```

In both cases, the routing key will be the same (`Events` prefix is dropped) and will resolve to `payment.marked_as_paid`

To avoid unexpected problems, don't use restricted names for attribtes such as `meta`, `routing_key`, `preceeding_event`.

You can also specify whether the event should be processed asynchronously using `background_processor` (default behavior) or synchronously. If you want the event to be processed synchronously, e.g. when doing RPC, use `async: false` option.

10. `rpc_call_timeout` - a timeout for RPC calls, defaults to 10 seconds. Can be also customized per instance of RPC Client (covered later).

11. `instrumenter` - instrumenter object responding to `instrument` method taking one string argument, one optional hash argument and a block.

For example:

``` rb
module Instrumenter
  extend ::NewRelic::Agent::MethodTracer

  def self.instrument(name, payload = {})
    ActiveSupport::Notifications.instrument(name, payload) do
      self.class.trace_execution_scoped([name]) do
        yield if block_given?
      end
    end
  end
end
```

If you don't care about it, you can leave it empty.

### RPC

If you want to handle RPC call, you need to add `rpc: true` flag. Keep in mind that RPC requires a synchronous processing and response, so you also need to set `async: false`. The routing key and correlation ID will be resolved based on the message that is published by the client. The payload that is sent back will be what event handler reutrns, so it might be a good idea to just return a hash so that you can operate on JSON easily.

## Publishing

To publish an async event call `Hermes::Publisher`:

``` rb
Hermes::EventProducer.publish(event)
```

`event` is an instance of a subclass of `Events::BaseEvent`.

If you want to perform a synchronous RPC call, use `Hermes::RpcClient`:

``` rb
parsed_response_hash = Hermes::RpcClient.call(event)
```

You can also use an explicit initializer and provide custom `rpc_call_timeout`:

``` rb
parsed_response_hash = Hermes::RpcClient.new(rpc_call_timeout: 10).call(event)
```

If the request timeouts, `Hermes::RpcClient::RpcTimeoutError` will be raised.

## Testing

### RSpec useful stuff

Put this inside `rails_helper`. Note that it requires `webmock` and `sidekiq`.

``` rb
  def execute_jobs_inline
    original_active_job_adapter = ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter
    ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter = :inline
    Sidekiq::Testing.inline! do
      yield
    end
    ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter = original_active_job_adapter
  end

  config.around(:example, :inline_jobs) do |example|
    execute_jobs_inline { example.run }
  end

  class ActiveRecord::Base
    mattr_accessor :shared_connection

    def self.connection
      shared_connection.presence || retrieve_connection
    end
  end

  config.after(:each) do
    Hermes::Publisher.instance.reset
  end

  config.before(:each, :with_rabbit_mq) do
    ActiveRecord::Base.shared_connection = ActiveRecord::Base.connection

    stub_request(:get, "http://127.0.0.1:15672/api/exchanges")
    stub_request(:get, "http://127.0.0.1:15672/api/bindings")

    hutch_publisher = Hermes::Publisher::HutchAdapter.new
    Hermes::Publisher.instance.current_adapter = hutch_publisher

    @worker_thread = Thread.new do
      Hutch.connect

      worker = Hutch::Worker.new(Hutch.broker, Hutch.consumers, Hutch::Config.setup_procs)
      worker.run
    end

    sleep 0.2
  end

  config.after(:each, :with_rabbit_mq) do |example|
    @worker_thread.kill
  end
```

To run integrations specs (with real RabbitMQ process), use `inline_jobs` and `with_rabbit_mq` meta flags.

#### Example integration spec with RabbitMQ

``` rb
require "rails_helper"

RSpec.describe "Example Event Test", :with_rabbit_mq, :inline_jobs do
  describe "when Events::Example::Happened is published" do
    subject(:publish_event) { Hermes::EventProducer.publish(event) }

    let(:event) { Events::Example::Happened.new(event_params) }
    let(:event_params) do
      {
        name: name
      }
    end
    let(:name) { "hermes" }

    it "calls Example::HappenedHandler" do
      expect(Example::HappenedHandler).to receive(:call)
        .with(instance_of(Events::Example::Happened)).and_call_original

      publish_event
      sleep 0.2 # since this is an async action, some delay will be required, either with a simple way like this, or you may want to go with something more complex to not put ugly `sleep` here
    end
  end
end

```

### Matchers

E.g. in `spec/supports/matchers/publish_async_message`:

``` rb
require "hermes/support/matchers/publish_async_message"
```

And then use it in the following way:

``` rb
expect {
  call
}.to publish_async_message(routing_key_of_the_expected_event).with_event_payload(expected_event_payload)
```

Note that `expected_event_payload` does not contain extra `meta` key that is added by Hermes publisher, it's just a symbolized hash with the result of the serialization of the event.

### Example test of HermesHandlerJob

``` rb
require "rails_helper"

RSpec.describe HermesHandlerJob do
  it { is_expected.to be_processed_in :critical }

  describe "#perform" do
    subject(:perform) { described_class.new.perform(EventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob.to_s, payload) }

    let(:configuration) { Hermes.configuration }
    let(:event_handler) { Hermes::EventHandler.new }
    let(:payload) do
      {
        "bookingsync" => "hermes"
      }
    end
    class EventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob < Events::BaseEvent
      attribute :bookingsync, Types::Strict::String
    end
    class HandlerForEventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob
      def self.event
        @event
      end

      def self.call(event)
        @event = event
      end
    end

    before do
      event_handler.handle_events do
        handle EventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob, with: HandlerForEventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob
      end
    end

    around do |example|
      original_event_handler = configuration.event_handler

      Hermes.configure do |config|
        config.event_handler = event_handler
      end

      example.run

      Hermes.configure do |config|
        config.event_handler = original_event_handler
      end
    end

    it "calls proper handler with a given event" do
      perform

      expect(HandlerForEventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob.event).to be_a(EventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob)
      expect(HandlerForEventClassForTestingHermesHandlerJob.event.bookingsync).to eq "hermes"
    end
  end
end
```

## Deployment and managing consumerzs

Hermes is just an extra later on top of [hutch](https://github.com/gocardless/hutch), refer to Hutch's docs for more info about dealing with the workers and deployment.

## CircleCI config for installing RabbitMQ

Use `- image: brandembassy/rabbitmq:latest`

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/BookingSync/hermes-rb.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
